# NoSQL Research Lab

## Explainer
Up until now in the cohort we have stored data only in what are known as relational databases (SQL is the most well known type of relational DB querying language). Relational databases structure our data into tables. Today we will learn about a different type of database: a non-relational one. 

## Lab

In this lab you will be researching, either individually or in groups, answer to the following questions about noSQL databases. The intention is for you to spend some time learning about the fundamental differences between the type of databases we have seen before and the new type we will be learning about today. Even more importantly, you will learn about why two types of databases are used, and what situations fit each type of db. 

## Setup

Fork and clone this repository and answer questions as you research directly in the README. You do not have to submit this lab, but you will want to have it on hand for reference in the future. 

# Questions:
1. What does the term noSQL refer to, and what other term is often used synonymously with noSQL?
    * NoSQL, also called non-relational, refers to a database that does not utilize relationships between tables.
2. What are some of the common arguments for using a non-relational versus a relational db?
    * Non-relational databases are more modular because of their dynamic schemata. Relational databases have predefined schemata and therefore require all fields to be planned in advance before data can be added.
    * Non-relational databases do not require join tables to connect their collections.
    * Non-relational databases access data more quickly, allow for quicker responses at scale.
3. In this class we will be using the document style of non-relational databases. What are the charecteristics of a document based db? 
    * Document-based databases use BSON objects (similar to JSON on JS objects) to store data.
    * They can have various numbers of fields, and not every document in a collection needs to have the same fields.
4. In this class we will be using Mongo specificially as our no-SQL db. Look into Mongo and answer this question: what is the priamry difference between how Mongo is maintained vrs SQL?
    * NoSQL databases require less maintenance and less training to maintain generally. They can also be altered without the creation of new schemata.
5. Mongo DBs are organized into documents. Describe an example of a table in SQL that contains users, and then describe the equivalent DB setup in Mongo. 
    * A user table in SQL might have columns that include:
        * Id (a unique property for each user)
        * username
        * email
        * password
    * The equivalent MongoDB collection would include document objects:
        ```js
        {
            _id: string (autogenerated),
            username: string,
            email: string,
            password: string (hashed)
        }
        ```
    * It can also include other datatypes such as arrays, which SQL can't do.
        ```js
        {
            _id: string (autogenerated),
            username: string,
            password: string (hashed),
            contact: [
                {email: string},
                {phone: integer}
            ]
        }
        ```
6. What is an example situation where a Mongo database makes sense versus a relational db?
    * Ideally, MongoDB would be useful over SQL for large-scale web applications where many requests are made very quickly. Because MongoDB collections don't inlcude relations in queries, response times are improved.
    * MongoDB is also more flexible for storing complex data types, like arrays and objects.
    * MongoDB allows for evolving fields in documents, which allows for new features to be implemented quickly.
    * MongoDB uses JSON-like objects that translate well for use in javascript applications.
